Welcome to the distribution section of the course. I'm Zach. I'll be leading
you
through the beginning part and then Connor will take over halfway through.
We'll actually be switching off. He's gonna, what you'll see. But this is, if
not
the most important, one of, it's up there, like top one or two, the most
important things of this entire course, you could have the best app in the
world.
The best ever. If you have zero distribution, you will get zero downloads
and you will get zero sales, zero dollars in revenue. And we're not here just
to
build good apps. We're here to make money. So let's dive in and see how we're
gonna do that. So the main distribution channels are really influencers doing
influencer marketing, creating organic content. This is posting on TikTok,
Instagram, X, Reddit, anything that's organic. You're not paying for the
posters, putting it up, letting the algorithm decide if it's gonna go viral.
Paper click ads. So this is Facebook ads, Google ads, Snapchat ads, meta ads,
meta
actually includes Facebook and Instagram. And then a bunch of others. Then we
have
App Store Optimization. And this is if you guys are familiar with web apps, web
development, the concept of SEO, search engine optimization. This is App Store
Optimization App Store. So App Store Optimization. Yeah. Okay. App Store
search, that's incorrect. I'm gonna fix that. But it's App Store Optimization.
And
this is like keyword. So if you look for my app, Cal AI, the calorie tracking
out,
if you look up calorie tracker, the fourth search term will come up as
Cal AI. So that's Apple search optimization or sorry, App Store Optimization.
So everything has a trade off. If we look at the profitability curve, paper
click
ads are the least profitable. Influencers are the second least profitable. This
is
all generally, by the way, you might find that for you, it's totally different.
But
generally, this is what you'll find. Organic content is the second most
profitable. And App Store Optimization is the most profitable. And this is
really
because App Store Optimization, it's just, it takes setup in the beginning when
you
first launch your app, you're just putting in the keywords, a bunch of things
with
the title and screenshots. And then it just goes, you're not spending money on
this. If someone looks up your search term and goes to your app, you make money
,
you don't pay for anything. So it's the most profitable. Paper click ads, that
's
like you're directly paying one of these algorithms to find you a customer that
going to go buy your app. So you're paying the least margin usually. It's the
greatest customer acquisition cost. Okay, now you go through the scalability
curve. And you'll notice there's an inverse relationship between these two,
where the most profitable is the least scalable here. And the least profitable
is the most scalable. Apple Search Optimization, App Store Optimization,
Fuck Dude, least scalable, organic content, secondly scalable influencers,
second most
scalable and paper click ads, the most scalable. This is also everything here.
Keep in mind is in general, you might find that it's somewhere for you. And by
scalability, I mean how hard it is to exhaust the channel, how many daily
downloads or monthly downloads can you pull from these channels? You'll be able
to pull the most monthly downloads from paper click ads and the least from
App Store Optimization generally. I didn't add its peak performance. Okay, now
there is the difficulty to start curve. ASO is by far the easiest to start.
When
you set up your app, you just have to keep a few principles in mind when you're
designing your icon, your screenshots, your title, your subtitle and your
keywords.
So we're going to go through all of those but really easy and once you set it
up,
it's just good forever pretty much. Some people like to go in and change things
but we'll get to all of that. Organic content, then it's a pretty steep pick up
after App Store Optimization then it goes to organic content where this, it's
not
that difficult to start, it's like you create a new account, you have to do
something called warming up an account which is a little bit annoying but then
you can just start posting. We'll get to that influencers, this is pretty
difficult to start. You have to DM hundreds of influencers, you're lucky if
one replies, then you're lucky you can negotiate a deal with them, get them to
post all of these things we'll get into and pay per click ads also very
difficult
to start. I was actually in between with influencers and pay per click which is
the most difficult to start because they both have their difficulties and
parts that are easier about them. So I'd say they're pretty similar however the
reason I say paper click is more difficult is because it's generally more
saturated and so maybe like first of all it requires a ton of setup but even
once you get started it's not just about getting started in order to run it
successfully the right way, be profitable that's gonna be so much more
difficult
than influencers usually at least like right off the bat and it's a lot more
setup than anything else for sure. The consistency curve, so this is like can
you rely on this channel to basically pull in the same number of downloads on
a week over a week, month over month, day over day basis. So organic content,
this
is the most sporadic, it's all about the algorithm. People usually will post
like
10 videos and they'll apply the pre-to principle, two of those will go viral
and
justify either the cost or time spent on those other eight videos that did not
go viral so that's organic content. It's like you don't know when a video is
gonna go viral, it's like randomly you'll have these spikes and maybe they
normalize over a long enough period of time. Influencers. Influencers are
definitely more steady because you can predict and we're gonna get into how to
do this, how many views your video will get and so you can align things where
you're basically pulling in the same number of views per day and assuming
your content is a similar quality you'll get around the same number of
downloads per day. Paper click ads are the second most consistent where the
algorithm is really the it will, it is it is complex and we'll get into all
the complexities however generally once you have it all set up, once you have
your ad creatives, the videos, the videos that you're running as ads all set up
and you set up your ad budgets, the algorithm will spend that amount every
single day and until you exhaust your creatives you'll see the same performance
and exhausting creatives is something I'll explain later and then we have
apps or optimization and this is just pretty steady like not that many people
will search your keywords not that many people will search for your app but it
will be pretty consistent over you know over the week or month time period.
Attribution trade-offs used to be a bigger deal so I was thinking of making
another one of these curves but I decided not to because in the past one of
the big one of the big reasons to run paid ads over something like influencer
marketing is because of the attribution. You could figure out exactly where the
downloads came from you know exactly how many downloads came from one ad with
influencers thinking about it they just post a video and there's no links on a
TikTok so the person that sees the video has to go download your app from the
app source separately and you don't know where they came from you know they may
have came from the video because they were posted the video was posted around
the same time the download was in but you can't get much better attribution
than that especially if you have multiple posts going out at the same time
because
you're operating at such a large scale so paid ads were better for so long
you could have hundreds of different ads running and each one would track how
many downloads came from it specifically down to down to the device ID but now
because of all of Apple's regulations you can do that anymore and so
attribution
is very tricky therefore it's almost just as hard as attributing influencer
marketing at this point.
Cool.